docs/GOOGLE_OAUTH_VERIFICATION.md, before:

# Google OAuth App Verification - Pending Tasks

## ⚠️ Current Status: IN PROGRESS

### What We've Completed:
- ✅ Created Google OAuth client in Google Cloud Console
- ✅ Added all redirect URIs (localhost + production)
- ✅ Enabled required APIs (Gmail, Sheets, Drive, Meet, Calendar)
- ✅ Added Privacy Policy link to landing page (top + footer)
- ✅ Added Terms of Use link to landing page
- ✅ Added DNS TXT record for domain verification

### What's Pending:

#### 1. Google Search Console Domain Verification
**Status:** DNS record added, waiting for Google to recognize it

**Action Required:**
1. Go to: https://search.google.com/search-console
2. Select "Domain" property type
3. Enter: `tryeasyflow.com`
4. Click "Verify" (may need to wait 10-30 minutes after DNS record was added)
5. If verification fails, wait and try again (DNS propagation can take time)

**Alternative Method (if DNS verification keeps failing):**
1. In Google Search Console, select "URL prefix" instead of "Domain"
2. Enter: `https://tryeasyflow.com`
3. Choose "HTML tag" verification method
4. Google will provide a `<meta>` tag
5. Add it to: `rpa-system/rpa-dashboard/public/index.html` in the `<head>` section
6. Deploy to production
7. Click "Verify"

#### 2. OAuth Consent Screen Branding Verification
**Status:** Waiting for domain verification to complete

**Action Required (after domain verification succeeds):**
1. Go to: https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/consent
2. Scroll to "Branding verification issues"
3. Click "I have fixed the issues"
4. Click "Request re-verification for your branding"
5. Wait 24-48 hours for Google to re-crawl your site
6. You'll receive an email when verification is complete

---

## Will This Prevent Google OAuth App Verification?

### Short Answer: **NO, but it affects user experience**

### Detailed Explanation:

#### ✅ What Works NOW (Without Verification):
- **OAuth flows work** - Users can connect Google integrations
- **App works in "Testing" mode** - You can add test users
- **All integrations function** - Gmail, Sheets, Drive, Meet, Calendar all work

#### ⚠️ What's Affected (Without Verification):
- **"Google hasn't verified this app" warning** - Users see a warning screen before consent
- **Branding not shown** - Your app logo and name may not appear on consent screen
- **Limited to 100 test users** - In testing mode, only 100 users can use the app
- **Cannot publish publicly** - App cannot be used by general public without verification

#### ✅ What Verification Unlocks:
- **No warning screen** - Users see your branded consent screen
- **Public access** - Unlimited users can use your app
- **Professional appearance** - Your logo and branding shown to users
- **Trust indicator** - "Verified by Google" badge

---

## Current OAuth Consent Screen Status

**Publishing Status:** Testing
- ✅ App works for test users (up to 100)
- ⚠️ Shows "unverified app" warning to users
- ⚠️ Cannot be used by general public

**After Verification:**
- ✅ Publishing Status: In production
- ✅ No warning screens
- ✅ Unlimited users
- ✅ Professional branding

---

## Quick Reference Links

- **Google Search Console:** https://search.google.com/search-console
- **OAuth Consent Screen:** https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/consent
- **Google Cloud Console:** https://console.cloud.google.com/
- **Project:** easyflow-77db9

---

## Next Steps (When You Return)

1. **Check DNS Verification:**
   ```bash
   dig TXT tryeasyflow.com
   ```
   Should show: `google-site-verification=wPQXazSqRb1yTJci7SjYTRshIgurMkyA3CGw5w31auM`

2. **Try Google Search Console Verification Again:**
   - Wait 10-30 minutes after DNS record was added
   - Go to Search Console and click "Verify"
   - If it fails, use URL prefix method instead

3. **Request Branding Re-Verification:**
   - After domain verification succeeds
   - Go to OAuth consent screen
   - Click "I have fixed the issues"
   - Request re-verification

4. **Wait for Google Review:**
   - 24-48 hours for branding verification
   - You'll get an email when complete

---

## Notes

- **DNS TXT Record:** Already added and visible (`dig TXT tryeasyflow.com` confirms it)
- **Privacy Policy Link:** Added to landing page header and footer
- **Terms of Use Link:** Added to landing page footer
- **Domain:** tryeasyflow.com
- **Verification Token:** `wPQXazSqRb1yTJci7SjYTRshIgurMkyA3CGw5w31auM`

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-01-29
**Status:** Domain verification pending (DNS record confirmed, waiting for Google to recognize)

Commit message:

feat(cicd): implement automated CI/CD protection to block non-production code
- Block all direct pushes to main branch via pre-push hook
- Fix workflows to properly block on failures (qa-core, qa-integration, terraform-validate)
- Make monitor-email-queue non-blocking (monitoring only)
- Add automated branch protection setup script (npm run setup:protection)
- Add complete CI/CD setup script (npm run setup:cicd)
- Add comprehensive documentation (AUTOMATED_CICD_PROTECTION.md)
- Update package.json with setup scripts

This ensures non-production-ready code cannot reach production.
All deployments must go through 'npm run ship' which runs full validations.

docs/GOOGLE_OAUTH_VERIFICATION.md, after:

# Google OAuth App Verification - Pending Tasks

## ⚠️ Current Status: IN PROGRESS

### What We've Completed:
- ✅ Created Google OAuth client in Google Cloud Console
- ✅ Added all redirect URIs (localhost + production)
- ✅ Enabled required APIs (Gmail, Sheets, Drive, Meet, Calendar)
- ✅ Added Privacy Policy link to landing page (top + footer)
- ✅ Added Terms of Use link to landing page
- ✅ Added DNS TXT record for domain verification

### What's Pending:

#### 1. Google Search Console Domain Verification
**Status:** DNS record added, waiting for Google to recognize it

**Action Required:**
1. Go to: https://search.google.com/search-console
2. Select "Domain" property type
3. Enter: `tryeasyflow.com`
4. Click "Verify" (may need to wait 10-30 minutes after DNS record was added)
5. If verification fails, wait and try again (DNS propagation can take time)

**Alternative Method (if DNS verification keeps failing):**
1. In Google Search Console, select "URL prefix" instead of "Domain"
2. Enter: `https://tryeasyflow.com`
3. Choose "HTML tag" verification method
4. Google will provide a `<meta>` tag
5. Add it to: `rpa-system/rpa-dashboard/public/index.html` in the `<head>` section
6. Deploy to production
7. Click "Verify"

#### 2. OAuth Consent Screen Branding Verification
**Status:** Waiting for domain verification to complete

**Action Required (after domain verification succeeds):**
1. Go to: https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/consent
2. Scroll to "Branding verification issues"
3. Click "I have fixed the issues"
4. Click "Request re-verification for your branding"
5. Wait 24-48 hours for Google to re-crawl your site
6. You'll receive an email when verification is complete

---

## Will This Prevent Google OAuth App Verification?

### Short Answer: **NO, but it affects user experience**

### Detailed Explanation:

#### ✅ What Works NOW (Without Verification):
- **OAuth flows work** - Users can connect Google integrations
- **App works in "Testing" mode** - You can add test users
- **All integrations function** - Gmail, Sheets, Drive, Meet, Calendar all work

#### ⚠️ What's Affected (Without Verification):
- **"Google hasn't verified this app" warning** - Users see a warning screen before consent
- **Branding not shown** - Your app logo and name may not appear on consent screen
- **Limited to 100 test users** - In testing mode, only 100 users can use the app
- **Cannot publish publicly** - App cannot be used by general public without verification

#### ✅ What Verification Unlocks:
- **No warning screen** - Users see your branded consent screen
- **Public access** - Unlimited users can use your app
- **Professional appearance** - Your logo and branding shown to users
- **Trust indicator** - "Verified by Google" badge

---

## Current OAuth Consent Screen Status

**Publishing Status:** Testing
- ✅ App works for test users (up to 100)
- ⚠️ Shows "unverified app" warning to users
- ⚠️ Cannot be used by general public

**After Verification:**
- ✅ Publishing Status: In production
- ✅ No warning screens
- ✅ Unlimited users
- ✅ Professional branding

---

## Quick Reference Links

- **Google Search Console:** https://search.google.com/search-console
- **OAuth Consent Screen:** https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials/consent
- **Google Cloud Console:** https://console.cloud.google.com/
- **Project:** easyflow-77db9

---

## Next Steps (When You Return)

1. **Check DNS Verification:**
   ```bash
   dig TXT tryeasyflow.com
   ```
   Should show: `google-site-verification=wPQXazSqRb1yTJci7SjYTRshIgurMkyA3CGw5w31auM`

2. **Add DNS TXT Record for Domain Verification:**
   - Go to your domain registrar (where you bought tryeasyflow.com)
   - Add a TXT record:
     - **Name/Host:** `@` or `tryeasyflow.com` (or leave blank, depends on registrar)
     - **Type:** `TXT`
     - **Value:** `google-site-verification=0luN2b45mX9jAJnbvGhKK6jCF2fnN1cpcomZqW9hafw`
   - Save the DNS record
   - Wait 10-30 minutes for DNS propagation
   - Go back to Google Search Console and click "Verify"

3. **Request Branding Re-Verification:**
   - After domain verification succeeds
   - Go to OAuth consent screen
   - Click "I have fixed the issues"
   - Request re-verification

4. **Wait for Google Review:**
   - 24-48 hours for branding verification
   - You'll get an email when complete

---

## Notes

- **DNS TXT Record:** Needs to be added with new verification token
- **Privacy Policy Link:** ✅ Added to landing page header and footer (in production)
- **Terms of Use Link:** ✅ Added to landing page footer (in production)
- **Domain:** tryeasyflow.com
- **Current Verification Token:** `0luN2b45mX9jAJnbvGhKK6jCF2fnN1cpcomZqW9hafw`
- **Previous Token (if exists):** `wPQXazSqRb1yTJci7SjYTRshIgurMkyA3CGw5w31auM` (may need to be replaced)

---

**Last Updated:** 2025-01-29
**Status:** Domain verification pending (DNS record confirmed, waiting for Google to recognize)
